For assignment four I chose the following article:

Noh, Jihyun, Rebecca P. Seal, Jessica A. Garver, Robert H. Edwards, and Karl Kandler. "Glutamate co-release at GABA/glycinergic synapses is crucial for the refinement of an inhibitory map." Nature neuroscience 13, no. 2 (2010): 232-238.

Significance: The paper by Noh et al. investigates the role of VGLUT3 expression for the developmental refinement of an immature inhibitory projection in the developing auditory brainstem. VGLUT3 is necessary for the packaging of glutamate into synaptic vesicles, and the authors found that in knockout mice that lack VGLUT3 expression, the inhibitory projection does not undergo developmental strenghtening (increased input strength of synaptic responses) and fails to undergo developmental elimination of synaptic inputs (a necessary component for auditory frequency inputs fine-tuning). 

Statistical philosophy: although I could not find any major statistical errors, given my limited understanding of statistical tests, there were many instances throughout the paper where the authors could have improved their presentation of statistical tests. Many experiments in the paper were based on relatively small sample sizes (n < 10) and a recurring instance for this paper was the lack of effect size numbers, description of normality tests used, and instances where authors did not specify what statistical test was used.

Figure 2: the experiments for figure 2 investigate the strengthening of single fibre inputs in wildtype and VGLUT3 knockout mice during the first two postnatal weeks (postnatal day P1-2 and P9-12), a time period where individual fibres greatly increase their input strength. The authors mention in the results section "In newborn mice (P1–2), we found no difference in the amplitude of single-fiber responses between Vglut3+/+ and Vglut3−/− mice (P > 0.3, Student’s t test; Fig. 2 and Supplementary Fig. 1), indicating that the initial formation of MNTB-LSO connections occurs independent of glutamate co-release." The authors also write in the figure 2 caption "(c) Population data. At P1–2, single-fiber responses (mean of averaged response per cells) were not significantly different between Vglut3+/+ (71 ± 9 pA, n = 12 cells) and Vglut3−/− mice (83 ± 10 pA, n = 16 cells; P > 0.3, Student’s t test).". In such instances, the addition of effect size numbers (e.g., Cohen's d) would aid in the statistical philosophy for these results. Further, although the authors mention n values of 12 and 16, they fail to mention whether the n= 12 cells and n = 16 cells come from multiple wildtype and knockout mice or just from a single mouse.  For this experiment, the authors mention in the paper that the data was tested for a normal distribution, but they do not mention which normality tests were used, nor do they state any normality values. As such, it is unclear whether the Student's t test was appropriate for these results.
  Based on table 1 from Dushoff, Kain, and Bolker (2019), a better way to interpret the findings would be to say: In newborn mice (P1-2), given our relatively small sample sizes, our data on the amplitude of single-fibre responses were statistically unclear for wildtype and VGLUT3 knockout mice.









Dushoff J, Kain MP, Bolker BM. I can see clearly now: Reinterpreting statistical significance. Methods Ecol Evol. 2019;10:756–759. https://doi.org/10.1111/2041-210X.13159